Welcome back for another 5 minute movie recap.
Today, I'm going to give
you an overview of the 1994
English-language French action-thriller
film called 'Léon: The Professional'.
There will be Spoilers ahead,
so please proceed with caution.
Léon is an Italian-American hitman who
lives a solitary life in the outskirts
of New York City's Little Italy, where he
works for a mafia boss known as 'Old Tony.'
Léon encounters a lonely 12-year-old
girl named Mathilda Lando one day.
Mathilda now lives in an apartment down the
hall with her dysfunctional family and no
longer attends her problematic girls' school.
The DEA officers who have been paying Mathilda's
violent father to conceal cocaine in his apartment
are furious. DEA officers assault the premises,
headed by finely dressed drug addict
Norman Stansfield, after discovering he
has been stealing the cocaine. Stansfield murders
Mathilda's whole family when she is out shopping
for groceries during the raid. When Mathilda
arrives, she learns what has occurred only in
time to proceed down the hall to Léon's apartment,
where he reluctantly provides her with refuge.
Léon is a hitman, Mathilda swiftly finds.
She begs him to look after her and teach
her his talents so she may revenge
her four-year-old brother's murder.
Léon is first disturbed by her presence and
contemplates murdering her, but he ultimately
teaches Mathilda and demonstrates how to
wield various weapons to her satisfaction.
She does his errands, cleans his flat,
and teaches him to read in exchange.
The duo develops a strong relationship over
time. Mathilda admires Léon and develops a
crush on him immediately, telling him she loves
him frequently, but he refuses to reciprocate.
Mathilda prepares a bag with firearms
from Léon's collection and goes out to
assassinate Stansfield after Léon
leaves for an alleged mission.
She bluffs her way into the DEA building by
acting as a delivery girl, only to be ambushed
in a restroom by Stansfield; one of his men enters
and reveals that Léon had just killed Malky, one
of the corrupt DEA officers, in Chinatown earlier
that morning. Léon rescues Mathilda after finding
her plot in a message left for him, killing
two more of Stansfield's men in the process.
Tony is aggressively probed about
Léon's location by an irate Stansfield.
Léon tells Mathilda about how
he became a cleaner that night;
when he was 18, Léon fell in love with a girl from
a rich family in Italy. They planned to elope,
but when the girl's father found out about
their connection, he killed her. In retaliation,
Léon murdered his father and fled to New York,
where he met Tony and apprenticed as a cleaner.
Later, an NYPD ESU squad dispatched by Stansfield
catches Mathilda as she returns home from grocery
shopping and attempts to penetrate Léon's
apartment. Léon catches the ESU squad off
guard and saves Mathilda. By breaking a hole in an
air shaft, Léon allows Mathilda to flee quickly;
he tells her to meet him at Tony's in an
hour, and tells her that he loves her,
only minutes before the police blow up the flat.
In the ensuing confusion, Léon slips out of the
building, posing as a wounded ESU officer; he
escapes unnoticed except by Stansfield, who chases
him down and shoots him in the back. Léon dies
after placing an item in Stansfield's hands that
he claims is 'from Mathilda.' It's a grenade pin,
Stansfield learns. When he unlocks Léon's vest,
he discovers a cluster of live explosives,
which detonate instantly, killing Stansfield.
Mathilda follows Léon's
instructions and visits Tony.
Mathilda tries to persuade Tony to
hire her, but Tony bluntly refuses,
telling Mathilda that he had been told by Léon to
give her his money if anything happened to him.
He sends Mathilda back to school with
a $100 stipend from Leon's finances,
and the headmistress re-admits her when Mathilda
recounts what happened to her. She then proceeds
to a nearby field to plant Léon's houseplant,
as she had advised him to 'give it roots.'
If you like this movie, click the link in
the description below to watch it today.
I hope you have enjoyed this video. Hit the
like button and subscribe for more videos.
Have a great day ahead.